process/Process.md, before:


# February 4th 2025 

## 11:20 AM 
Okay. I've been processing this for about 2 months in my head and it is finally go time. I imagine this system as one base prototype that provides the core structure of an academic article, and then 4 other prototypes that use this base structure to build other interactions on top of it. 

To power this base structure I will convert a paper - likely Rilla and Pippin's paper from 2023 - into a formatted MD files collection. This strips the paper of its strict formatting from the publisher and extracts the data into a malleable form. 

From this I build a system in react that loads this MD file into a web app.
Scrolling vertically implies continuity, whereas scrolling horizontally -- like cards -- implies a shift in the entity. So with that rationale in mind I think each section of the paper should be a vertical entity and transition between each section should be a horizontal swipe. 

A paragraph is the quanta of an essay. A paragraph represents an idea in an essay. So instead of swiping continiously, there should be a gentle "flick" that jumps between paragraphs. This way, there is also a ==meta-cue== for the reader: "so and so idea was 4 flicks ago". 

I think for prototype zero this idea of meta-cues is of peak importance. This is one thing severely missing from the current form and I think this is exactly what disorients people or makes them feel out of control. 

I am yet to think of how sub-sections should be dealt with but I will figure that out once this much is in. 

As for the other prototypes, I have some main ideas . 
1. Writing and Rewriting layers
	1. to engage with a text we need to be able to write our thoughts. As Eric hayot writes, we dont write what we have thought, we write to think. (case in point, this very journal).
2. Ability to restructure the paper
	1. People don't read a paper in the same order as is put together by a publisher, they read it usually first as abstract only, then introduction and conclusion, then maybe some survey of the methodology and look at the discussions 
	2. Point being: the ability to focus in on things that
3. concept map -- nodes 
4. deep references 
	1. The ability to reference the nodes or markers in *other* papers? how would this work 
5. manual markers
	1. Like bookmarks at different spots of the paper drawing a through-line through the paper.  
6. lowlighting 
	1. the reverse of highlighting? Would this be useful? How would this make the reader feel? 
7. Still curious to think of something that would be somewhat... *edgy* like *forcing* a user to be an active reader. 

Stopped: 11:44 AM

Commit message:

Journal Update
Converted Khaled et. al. 2018 into an MD file paper

process/Process.md, after:


# February 4th 2025 

## 9:45 PM 

Okay lets begin. I want to start and take prototype zero to a far enough state. As for the template Im using for repository, I'll change the home screen to the different prototypes. 
I have to first make a paper into an MD file. 

--- 10:09 PM MacOS wants to update now, fuckin A... brb 
--- 10:54 Back in action.

Paper converted 
End of day


## 11:20 AM 
Okay. I've been processing this for about 2 months in my head and it is finally go time. I imagine this system as one base prototype that provides the core structure of an academic article, and then 4 other prototypes that use this base structure to build other interactions on top of it. 

To power this base structure I will convert a paper - likely Rilla and Pippin's paper from 2023 - into a formatted MD files collection. This strips the paper of its strict formatting from the publisher and extracts the data into a malleable form. 

From this I build a system in react that loads this MD file into a web app.
Scrolling vertically implies continuity, whereas scrolling horizontally -- like cards -- implies a shift in the entity. So with that rationale in mind I think each section of the paper should be a vertical entity and transition between each section should be a horizontal swipe. 

A paragraph is the quanta of an essay. A paragraph represents an idea in an essay. So instead of swiping continiously, there should be a gentle "flick" that jumps between paragraphs. This way, there is also a ==meta-cue== for the reader: "so and so idea was 4 flicks ago". 

I think for prototype zero this idea of meta-cues is of peak importance. This is one thing severely missing from the current form and I think this is exactly what disorients people or makes them feel out of control. 

I am yet to think of how sub-sections should be dealt with but I will figure that out once this much is in. 

As for the other prototypes, I have some main ideas . 
1. Writing and Rewriting layers
	1. to engage with a text we need to be able to write our thoughts. As Eric hayot writes, we dont write what we have thought, we write to think. (case in point, this very journal).
2. Ability to restructure the paper
	1. People don't read a paper in the same order as is put together by a publisher, they read it usually first as abstract only, then introduction and conclusion, then maybe some survey of the methodology and look at the discussions 
	2. Point being: the ability to focus in on things that
3. concept map -- nodes 
4. deep references 
	1. The ability to reference the nodes or markers in *other* papers? how would this work 
5. manual markers
	1. Like bookmarks at different spots of the paper drawing a through-line through the paper.  
6. lowlighting 
	1. the reverse of highlighting? Would this be useful? How would this make the reader feel? 
7. Still curious to think of something that would be somewhat... *edgy* like *forcing* a user to be an active reader. 

Stopped: 11:44 AM
